 
 
 
 
 
JUMPER’S KNEE PROTOCOL 
Twist in the Knee.  If you feel that the leg gets locked easily, you could have a “twist in the 
knee”.  The isometric sessions themselves will help to clear this up but you can use a more 
focused approach to restore what’s missing.  Run through this sequence of simple fixes before 
an isometric session to unlock the knee by working upstream and downstream: 
1) Calcaneal Eversion.  20 reps each side.  Grab the heel bone and forcefully push it outwards, 
away from midline. 
2) Tibial Internal Rotation.  20 reps each side.  Get in a lunge position with your hands around 
the upper calf and tibial tuberosity.  As you push your hip forward, try to internally rotate 
the tibia.  As you come back, let go of the pull.  Repeat for reps. 
3) Wall Single-leg Bridge.  30 seconds each side.  Keep the foot’s tripod on the wall, elevating 
the heel on a foam roller.  Come up slightly with the hips and keep a little bend in the knee.  
Bring the opposite knee up, bring your opposite elbow to that knee, hold, and take deep 
breaths. 
4) 90/90 Hip Lift.  1 minute.  Heels on a bench, something between the knees to engage the 
adductors, posteriorly tilt the pelvis using your upper hamstrings.  Hold the position and 
breathe. 
5) 90/90 hip switches.  20 reps each side.  Try to stay as upright as possible.  When range of 
motion allows, try not using the hands for support. 
6) Arm bar.  20 reps each side.  Grab a 25-50 pound weight.  Arm straight up, rotate to your 
side by bringing your knee up.  Keep the opposite leg straight.  Rock back and repeat. 
7) Bench Adductor.  20 reps each side.  Bodyweight.  Knee or foot on a bench.  Side plank 
position.  Bring the hips up off the ground by engaging the adductors (groin), then let the 
hips go back down. 
8) Full Squat.  2 minutes.  Grab on to something for balance.  Squat down as deep as you can.  
Keep the heels down but let the knees travel forward.  Try inhaling and exhaling into the 
back of your ribcage. 
9) DB Side Bend.  20 reps each side.  Grab a weight that’s heavy but not so heavy that you 
can’t move your spine fully.  Bend to the side and stand up.  Repeat for reps. 
10) Hanging Knee Raise.  20 reps.  Hanging from a bar.  Bring the knees up so your thighs come 
above 90 degrees and your pelvis posteriorly rotates.  Straighten out and repeat. 
 
Done together, these 10 movements will help to restore normal range of motion in your lower 
body while integrating musculature so you can “untwist the knee”.  After running through this 
sequence, you should feel much better in the patellar tendon even though you didn’t load it. 
 
Video demonstration here 
 
Motor Cortex.  A large part of Stage 1 Isometrics is balancing out 
inhibition and activation from the brain.  This can be accelerated 
by using these tools during your quadriceps isometric exercises: 
- 
Listen to a metronome at 60 beats per minute. 
- 
Do eye movements with each beat (up and down, 
side to side). 
- 
Put your hand on your quad to feel it activating. 
Video demonstration here 
 
 
