 
 
 
 
 
JUMPER’S KNEE PROTOCOL 
Troubleshooting Stage 1 Isometrics: 
 
Stage 1 Isometric training is meant to be done as a standalone.  You need to completely remove 
everything else so you can build yourself back up.  There are some exceptions listed below. 
 
If there is something you can do that barely loads the patellar tendon at all (e.g., getting 
standing shots up for a basketball player, light straight-line dribbling for a soccer player, easy 
skipping for a track and field jumper), then go ahead.  If you get increased pain responses from 
any activity added, you need to remove it.  You are free to do whatever upper body training you 
want. 
 
If you think you have a very bad tendon and it hasn’t been loaded this extreme in a while, you 
should go a bit lighter on the quadriceps isometrics to start off and increase difficulty over time. 
 
If you can’t do the full workout twice per day, here are some options: 
- 
One full session and one session with just the quadriceps isometric. 
- 
One full session and one session with just exercise 3 & 4 (bodyweight 
isometrics). 
- 
One session with just the quadricep isometric and everything else done in a 
different session. 
 
Warmup for these sessions should look like this: 
- 
30-45 second Quadriceps isometric hold with a light weight (e.g., Leg Extension) 
or easier position (e.g., Spanish Squat). 
- 
30-45 second Quadriceps isometric hold with a medium weight (e.g., Leg 
Extension) or slightly more difficult position (e.g., Spanish Squat). 
- 
Begin the session.  Those two warmup sets do not count towards the 5 sets. 
 
You can mix up the exercises between sessions or you can keep them the same.  It’s personal 
preference.  There are pros and cons to either choice.  See what works best for you. 
 
If you are getting a lot of Vastus Lateralis (outside quad muscle) tightness, you 
should work to decrease the tone of that area.  Do these two exercises either 
before or after the isometric session: 
- 
Foam Roll Vastus Lateralis.  Go up and down the outside quad in a 
controlled fashion, stopping in spots where there is tightness.  2 minutes 
per side. 
- 
Couch stretch.  Back knee up against the wall, push the hip forward 
so it stretches the quads.  Start with the hands on the 
floor.  If possible, sit straight up.  Hold 2 minutes per side. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
