 
 
 
 
 
JUMPER’S KNEE PROTOCOL 
10 Things to Keep in Mind 
 
1) The Brain deficit.  You need to spend enough time with isometrics (and visual, 
auditory, sensory tools) to normalize the brain’s inhibition and activation. 
 
2) The Muscle deficit.  You need to spend enough time strengthening your muscles 
with lifting (e.g., squats, split squats, hip hinges, step ups, calf raises). 
 
3) The Soleus-Hamstring deficit.  You need to get good at developing co-contractions 
around the knee (e.g., foam roller bridge, hopping progression). 
 
4) The Hopping deficit.  You need to develop the ankle/foot/Achilles.  If that area has a 
deficit, the knee will be forced to deal with it and you’ll likely have setbacks. 
 
5) Eat right.  You get tendon and muscle adaptations when you recover from training.  
Eat enough protein (~1 gram per pound bodyweight per day) from a variety of 
sources.  Eat enough carbohydrates and fats to provide you energy.  Specifically for 
tendons, consume some proteins higher in proline and glycine (e.g., collagen) and 
make sure you get enough vitamin C (e.g., oranges). 
 
6) Sleep enough.  There is some evidence in vitro and in animal models that tendon 
accumulates damage throughout the day and cleans itself up at night.  When the 
circadian rhythm is interrupted, this can cause issues with tendon clean up and 
could potentially be the start of tendinopathy.  Try to stay consistent with sleep-and-
wake times and get ~8 hours per night. 
 
7) Move enough.  A Jumper’s Knee Protocol training sessions lasts ~1 hour.  If you lay 
on the couch the other 23 hours, do you think that’s going to help you?  Probably 
not.  Motion is lotion and chronically high blood sugar (potentially from a sedentary 
lifestyle) can negatively impact tendon health.  Get 10,000 steps per day. 
 
8) Don’t change loads fast.  If you go from 0 jumps in one week to 100 jumps the next 
week, you will probably blow up your tendon.  Be slow with how you change store-
and-release loads. 
 
9) Appreciate the tendon healing process.  The tendinopathy continuum says that a 
normal tendon goes reactive, then into tendon dysrepair, then into a degenerative 
tendon.  Along the path, it will tell you how it’s feeling if you listen.  Some tendons 
take longer to heal than others.  If you had an event where you really aggravated the 
tendon, the reactive response could last for weeks or months.  Tendons don’t have a 
set recovery time.  Listen to next day pain and give the tendon what it wants.   
 
10) Be aware of psychosocial factors.  Look into the biopsychosocial model of pain.  
Thoughts, emotions, and behaviors can positively or negatively impact rehab.  
Economical, environmental, and cultural factors can do the same. 
Watch these videos 
