 
 
 
 
 
JUMPER’S KNEE PROTOCOL 
Troubleshooting Stage 2 Lifting: 
 
In Stage 1, zero to minimal patellar tendon stress activities were allowed.  Now that you’re in 
Stage 2, you can push the intensity a bit more to keep working on sport skills: 
- 
Standing basketball shots can now become shots on the move. 
- 
Light straight line soccer dribbling can now become dribbling around cones. 
- 
Easy skipping for a jumper can now become a bit more intense. 
 
If pain increases from these, regress.  You can do whatever upper body training you want. 
 
For the strength exercises, it is a 3-week sequence of sets/reps.  If you complete the 3-weeks 
and you still need more time in Stage 2 Lifting because pain is still high and/or you’re still weak, 
start over at week one.  Keep repeating this until you hit the criteria for progression listed at 
the bottom of this page. 
 
Warmup for Isometric days follow the same recommendation as listed in Stage 1 Isometrics.  
Since Lifting days start with the Achilles Hopping Progression, you should warmup a bit more to 
prepare for that.  This is also a good chance to get more low-level store-and-release work out of 
your lower body.  Do this: 
- 
Jog 100 yards 
- 
Backwards jog 100 yards 
- 
Shuffle 100 yards each 
- 
Carioca 100 yards each 
- 
Skip 100 yards  
 
Or, if you have training partners, play spikeball until warm.  This will get unconscious, low-level 
spring activity from the Patellar and Achilles tendons. 
 
Outside of the Achilles Hopping Progression (which needs to be done in order as pain and 
function allow), you can alternate strength exercises between sessions if you prefer.  Squats, 
split squats, hip hinges, step ups can all be interchanged or kept the exact same.  There are pros 
and cons to either choice.  See what works for you, just make sure you’re consistently getting 
stronger over the weeks. 
Tempo: 
 
The suggested tempo to strengthen muscle and to continue tendon stress relaxation is the 3-
seconds eccentric and 3-seconds concentric.  You should always begin your lifting phase with 
this slow tempo.  If you are tolerating this well and gaining strength, you have two options: 
 
- 
Continue with the Health Tempo (3 seconds down, 3 seconds up).  Use this if you 
have a very bad tendon and need to be extremely cautious with loading. 
- 
Switch into a more Performance Tempo (controlled down, explosive up).  Use 
this if you are making good progress in your rehab and are looking to push things a bit 
harder.  Keeping the reps and sets the same, you will be able to use a heavier weight 
with this tempo since the set won’t last as long. 
