 
 
 
 
 
JUMPER’S KNEE PROTOCOL 
The Protocol 
 
Fixing Jumper’s Knee 
In the science section of Jumper’s Knee Protocol, two methods of patellar tendon rehab were 
laid out: 1) a 4-stage process and 2) heavy isometrics.  Which one should you use?  Both. 
 
By combining the principles of each method, you are addressing the tendon but also 1) the 
brain, 2) the muscle, and 3) the kinetic chain. 
 
1) Brain 
The brain puts pain in your patellar tendon to protect it.  This is a good 
thing because pain forces you to stop loading your compromised 
tendon.  If you had no pain and continued to load, you would risk 
rupture.  But it’s also a bad thing if you want to get back to playing sport 
normally. 
 
The first step in restoring normal brain function is stage 1 isometrics.  
This type of loading helps to safely put load back through the tendon while balancing out the 
problems of inhibition and activation coming from the brain. 
 
You can get a synergistic effect if you use auditory (metronome), visual (eye movement), and 
sensory (putting your hands on the quadriceps muscles to feel them contract).  These all help to 
accelerate the process of restoring normal brain function.  
 
2) 
Muscle 
The quadriceps and the calves are two areas that will show loss of size, 
strength, and function with patellar tendinopathy.  The entire limb is also 
important, but the knee extensors show the biggest loss in function.  Stage 
2 lifting becomes about strengthening your 
atrophied muscles. 
 
3) Kinetic Chain 
Pain changes how the body moves.  Jumps become more of a hip hinge, 
lands become stiffer at the knees, and the whole leg can tend to be 
more extended during accelerations, decelerations, and changes of 
direction.  Brain and muscle improvements in stage 1 and 2 will help to 
restore normal kinetic chain function but stage 3 store-and-release is 
when you put everything back together and push your elastic function. 
 
The 4-Stage Process 
Rehab is about climbing the ladder.  As pain and function improve in isometrics, 
move up to lifting.  As pain and function improve in lifting, move up to store-
and-release.  As pain and function improve in store-and-release, move up to 
sport.  The benchmarks for progression are listed at the end of each phase. 
