 
 
 
 
 
JUMPER’S KNEE PROTOCOL 
Managing Pain 
Patellar tendon rehab is difficult because there is no specific plan or exercise that will work for 
all people.  But patellar tendon rehab is also easy because the tendon tells you if it’s happy or 
not with pain responses.  You just need to know when to listen: 
During training.  Increased tendon pain during training, as long as it’s not excruciating, is okay.  
It’s a normal part of rehab.  An allowable pain number that’s consistent across the research is 
a 3/10 pain.  Keep in mind that this is a rough estimate.  Some people do better on the low 
end (1/10), and some do better on the high end (5/10).  How do you know where you fit?  The 
next day pain response. 
Next Day Pain.  Increased tendon pain 24-hours later or the following morning is not okay.  
This is a sign that the tendon’s capacity has been exceeded. 
Next day pain is always the guiding light.  This will tell you whether your tendon is tolerating 
rehab well or if you need to scale back.  To determine next day pain, you have two options: 
1) Pain-Provocation Test 
This is the single-leg decline squat done to 90° of knee flexion or 
maximum angle allowed by pain. 
You do 1 repetition every single day at the same time and you keep 
note of your pain level. 
If your pain has returned to baseline from the previous day, this means 
the previous day’s loading has been tolerated.  You can progress as 
planned. 
If the pain is worse, load tolerance has been exceeded.  This is when it 
may be necessary to scale back by moving up a stage (e.g., Stage 2 Lifting back to Stage 
1 Isometrics), decreasing the intensity (e.g., jumps at 50% instead of 100%), or 
decreasing the volume (e.g., 5 sets to 3 sets) until pain settles. 
2) Next Morning Pain 
The pain provocation test can be reliable if done at the 
same time everyday under the same conditions.  
Sometimes, this can be difficult to pull off.  For this reason, 
next morning pain can be a more accurate measure of how 
your tendon is doing. 
Getting out of bed and walking around for a bit can be 
enough to gauge how the tendon is doing from the previous day’s loading.  Increased 
stiffness and pain compared to the previous morning is a sign that your tendon’s 
capacity has been exceeded and training needs to be scaled back. 
 
 
