 
 
 
 
 
JUMPER’S KNEE PROTOCOL 
Troubleshooting Stage 3 Store-And-Release: 
 
Minimal stress sport skill activities were allowed in Stage 2.  Now that you’re in Stage 3, you can 
make these changes to continue progressing with sport: 
- 
Basketball shots on the move can become shots against a defender. 
- 
Soccer dribbling around cones can now become dribbling against a defender. 
- 
Skipping for a jumper can become light bounding. 
 
The level of effort will depend on what you’re ready to handle.  If pain increases from these 
changes, pull back the intensity or go back to the well-tolerated movement you did in Stage 2.  
You have free reign on upper body training. 
 
Warmup the same as you would do for the Achilles Hopping progression.  Running variations 
for distance, a low-level game like spikeball, etc.  Just make sure you’re completely warm and 
the lower body feels ready for store-and-release movements. 
 
For every exercise, do 2-3 warmup sets where you go through the motion of the exercise at a 
lower intensity. 
 
Rest as long as needed between sets.  In the first 6 workouts or so, you probably won’t need as 
much rest because the intensity is 50-70%.  1-2 minutes should be enough.  In the last 6 
workouts or so, you will probably need more rest because the intensity is 90-100%.  2-3 
minutes will probably be right. 
 
The weekly setup goes 1) Store-And-Release, 2) Isometrics, and 3) Lifting.  This is because day 1 
is most likely to provoke pain and discomfort the following day, so isometrics can settle this.  By 
day 3, you should be feeling pretty good to do lifting and then ready for day 1 again.  If you are 
not ready, you can take a rest day or do another isometric day while you wait to feel ready.  If 
you have setbacks, don’t panic.  They’re a normal part of Stage 3. 
 
In the latter half of your Stage 3, you should really be using the sporting implement as much as 
possible.  Add it into your jumping, landing, accelerating, decelerating, and changing direction 
movements to further prepare you for Stage 4 Return to Sport. 
 
 
 
